docs(canvasx-layout) Layout docs (#1443)
johnsonandjohnson/Bodiless-JS: packages/cx-templates/doc/README.md

> # CX Templates Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# CanvasX Templates Overview
```

By default, a new page, if created via Bodiless admin editor, will use the
`src/templates/_default.jsx` file. This file comes as a default in the Bodiless Starter Site upon
creation. This default template can be customized as needed per site.

Usage of the template in Bodiless site can be done by creating an `index.json` file in the
appropriate `/data/pages/` location, and specifying the template's name in the JSON file.

```js
{
  "#template": "TEMPLATE_NAME",
  "#subpage_template": "TEMPLATE_NAME"  // Optional
}
```

An example using both the template and sub-page templates could be done in the
`/src/data/pages/products`.  
E.g., an `index.json` file with the following content:

```js
{
  "#template": "product_listing",
  "#subpage_template": "product_detail"
}
```

The page at URL path "/products", would use the Product Listing Page templates, and the sub-pages
would use the Product Detail Page template. This would require two templates created in the
`src/templates` directory with the names `product_listing.jsx` and `product_detail.jsx`. We will
provide these examples in the next sections of this guide.

> 

Reviewer: Note suggestion:

```suggestion

> When using TypeScript, the `.tsx` file extension is also supported.
```

  * Product details in accordion layout.
  * Flow Container area for cards.
  * Reviews, if site uses this feature.
* This page is also a very restrictive page that only allows the Content Editor to:
  * Modify the image.
  * Edit the title.
  * Edit product details in their accordions.
  * Edit the placing of a specific product card.
* This restrictiveness enforces conformity that all product detail pages are similar in nature. It
  also allows, in the future, a new component to be added easily to the template, and applied to all
  the products.
  * If a single product detail page has to deviate from the template, the template could be copied
    to the page's `index.tsx` file and modified.
    * This would break it away from it being templated as a one-off customized product detail page.
    * It wouldn't use templating anymore, and would have to be maintained in the future as a single
      product page, which could have its drawbacks.
* This is not part of the Starter Kit, and the template must be manually added to your site.
* Read more about [how to build out the Product Detail Page](./ProductDetailPage.md).

## Governance vs Flexibility of Templates

> As a Site Builder creating templates, it is suggested to create templates with items defined needing
> to have general uniformity, and applying Flow Containers within areas to allow flexibility to the
> Content Editor.

Reviewer: Rephrasing suggestion:

```suggestion
As a Site Builder, you can create templates with defined items to allow general
uniformity, and with Flow Containers within areas to allow flexibility to the
Content Editor.
```

By contrast, the Product Detail Page above has strict enforcement and doesn't allow the Content
Editor much variation at all. It defines the product image placement, title, and product detail
headers — only allowing the Content Editor to modify the content. They have some flexibility at the
bottom, where they can add different card components in the Flow Container area, but it's still
restrictive. This allows quick product additions by Content Editor, as they only have to enter in
the specific production information.

Let's use an example of an article to create a template with some governance, but still a lot of
flexibility. A template could be created that has two columns (⅔ and ⅓), where the left side is a
Flow Container area that can take any component, and the right-⅓ sidebar may only take card
components or Rich Text Editor components. This allows all articles to have column layouts and
enforce uniformity, but what is placed into those areas is more flexible and controlled by the
editor. In the sidebar, though, you're limited to components that fit nicely into ⅓-width space.
This offers flexibility, but keeps the articles using this template in the layout of two columns

> without being two restrictive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
without being too restrictive.
```

> The Site Builder as they design the templates can choose the following:
> 
> * Layout of the template.
> * Components pre-placed on the template.
> * Where Flow Containers reside, allowing a flexible area of the template.
> * Different variations of Flow Containers that control what components could be added to an area.

Reviewer: Rephrasing suggestion:

```suggestion
As they design templates, Site Builders can choose the following:

* The Layout of the template.
* To add pre-placed components on the template.
* Where to place Flow Containers, allowing flexible areas in the template.
* Different variations of Flow Containers that control what components could be added to an area.
```
